Add "Stabilizing bitcoin value" page (#1067)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/how-it-works/stabilizing-bitcoin-value.md

However, for a user who hopes to use bitcoin for daily spending or remittances, the volatility is a problem. Suppose Alice lives paycheck to paycheck. If she is paid in bitcoin, even a relatively small decrease in the price could make her unable to pay her Euro-denominated bills each month.

There are times when we prefer to have a stable amount of bitcoin. Other times we prefer a stable amount of another currency (which means that the amount of bitcoin fluctuates in relation).

The most direct and established option is for Alice to simply trade her bitcoin for local currency via an exchange. However, there are various techniques that help to stabilize bitcoin to the dollar value without selling. Some of these techniques are:

- [Tokens](#tokens)
- [Synthetic currencies](#synthetic-currencies)

> - [Discrete Log Contracts (DLCs)](#discrete-log-contracts-dlcs)

Reviewer: There is one more category which you could write about: Stable Channels see Tony's tweet here: https://x.com/tonklaus/status/1743179494524121559?s=20

Author: Thank you. I'll open that up as a separate issue once this PR is merged.

   alt-text = ""
   width = 1200
   height = 400
   layout = "full-width"
%}

So Alice enters an agreement with Robert via a smart contract, which automatically adjusts their respective amounts of bitcoin so she has a stable relative euro value.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/stabilizing-bitcoin-value/dlc-example.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/stabilizing-bitcoin-value/dlc-example@2x.png"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/stabilizing-bitcoin-value/dlc-example-mobile.png"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/how-it-works/stabilizing-bitcoin-value/dlc-example-mobile@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 1200
   height = 400
   layout = "full-width"
%}

In theory, this could even be extended to work within lightning channels. This has the advantages of being open-source and self-custodial, but comes at the cost of more technical complexity.

{% include fact/pros.html %}

- Option to have a stable asset
- The stability is not scoped to a particular app platform, but instead can be implemented by many apps
- Self-custodial and open-source

{% include fact/close.html %}

{% include fact/cons.html %}

> - The oracle goes down, so the smart contract no longer knows what the real-world price is. A default path in the DLC must be exercised and the user reclaims their original quantity of bitcoin but loses the price stability.

Reviewer: As long as Robert and Alice cooperate they don't need the oracle. The oracle is only needed if the two do not cooperate.

Author: That's interesting. I assumed the process was fully automated based on the oracle data, but sounds like the oracle is there for conflict resolution.

So what's the process for Robert and Alice to cooperate on this? One of them requests a "closing" of the contract with a specific outcome, and the other has to agree/sign?

Reviewer: > So what's the process for Robert and Alice to cooperate on this? One of them requests a "closing" of the contract with a specific outcome, and the other has to agree/sign?

Yes exactly. We call it _collaborative close_. In general it behaves similar to how lightning resolves HTLCs: 
`Look, I know the secret, I could go on-chain and get the money from the HTLC ... or, we could resolve this off-chain` vs. `Look, the oracle would say price is X, I could go on-chain and get the money ... or, we could resolve this off-chain`.
Obviously, if the oracle is not there anymore, a non-cooperative party could keep the money hostage or say you have to go on-chain... and if then there is still on oracle, a refund would come into play and both parties would get their money back.

Author: I updated the text (not where you left the comment, but a bit further up the page where oracles are first described). Thanks for the input.

- If there is extreme price volatility, exceeding the bounds of what is expressed in the DLC, the user loses stability.

> - In some market conditions, perhaps there are not enough willing counterparties to go around and match the other side of the bet, so users do not have the ability to stabilize new quantities of bitcoin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In some extreme market conditions, e.g. during a flash crash, there might not be a counterparty around to match the other side of the bet immediately. In this case, the user might either get a bad deal or risk devaluating their position.
```
